# Project Title:Journey in Analyzing Stillbirths and Population-based Epidemiological Research
[Members](Image/TEAM_JASPER.jpg)
# INTRODUCTION
Mortality rate of children below five years of age has been decreasing as of the past years (Roser, 2023). From the year 1950 up to the present, this has been the trend. Since 1990, there has been a significant decrease in childhood mortality worldwide.Globally, the number of children under the age of five that passes away has decreased from 12.8 million in 1990 to 5 million in 2021. The mortality rate for children under five has decreased worldwide by 59% since 1990, from 93 deaths per 1000 live births in 1990 to 38 in 2021. Neonatal fatalities decreased globally as well, from 5.2 million in 1990 to 2.3 million in 2021 (End Preventable Deaths of Newborns and Children Under 5 Years of Age, 2022). This raises a considerable peace of mind as the health coverage is steadily increasing over time. There are a lot of reasons as to why this is the case. One of the aspects that we are trying to look at is the nutritional status and health of women, especially mothers that conceive and give birth to such children. Some health and nutrition practices that women make and take. We are also trying to look at the possibility of the environment affecting newborn children.Mortality rate of children below five years of age has been decreasing as of the past years (Roser, 2023). From the year 1950 up to the present, this has been the trend. Since 1990, there has been a significant decrease in childhood mortality worldwide.Globally, the number of children under the age of five that passes away has decreased from 12.8 million in 1990 to 5 million in 2021. The mortality rate for children under five has decreased worldwide by 59% since 1990, from 93 deaths per 1000 live births in 1990 to 38 in 2021. Neonatal fatalities decreased globally as well, from 5.2 million in 1990 to 2.3 million in 2021 (End Preventable Deaths of Newborns and Children Under 5 Years of Age, 2022). This raises a considerable peace of mind as the health coverage is steadily increasing over time. There are a lot of reasons as to why this is the case. One of the aspects that we are trying to look at is the nutritional status and health of women, especially mothers that conceive and give birth to such children. Some health and nutrition practices that women make and take. We are also trying to look at the possibility of the environment affecting newborn children.
<br>Almost everyone is impacted by this phenomenon but there are a number of other countries that are successful in lowering their mortality rate, and they are also successful in maintaining it. They are imposing certain policies and treatment as well as practices in doing so. Having every country take the same approach would likely get the same results. Infant mortality rate (IMR) is often disregarded but such concern is typically regarded as a significant national indicator of health (Danna, 2021).  In the richest parts of the world child deaths have become very rare, but differences across countries are high. Somalia – on the Horn of Africa – is the country with the highest rate, 14% of newborns die as children (Roser, 2023). In general, humanity has strived a long way combating infant mortality rate (IMR) but there are still countries that are lagging behind.  It is ideal that every country is updated with the same course when it comes to the healthcare of its citizens.
<br>[Members](Image/1_bD6Q8IDG3Ef444SAOnNiyg.png)
<br>To sum this research up, this focuses on Sustainable Development Goal number 3, which promotes good health and well-being. The objective of this research is to identify the good practices that every country is doing to promote and improve a newborn’s health. The datasets that were used in this analysis were gathered from UNICEF data explorer datasets which will guide the researchers to obtain the results that they are looking for. This research will show what important practices should be implemented before, during and after conceiving a child should be implemented. 
# PROBLEM STATEMENT
Some practices are already being implemented, and governments in other countries are even imposing budgets for this, making giving birth to a child almost free (Stieg, 2020). Almost every country in the world has achieved great numbers when it comes to combating infant mortality rate. Although this is the case, unfortunately, survival gains have stalled significantly since 2010, and 54 countries will fall short of meeting the SDG target for under-5 mortality and 63 countries will not achieve the SDG target for neonatal mortality(End Preventable Deaths of Newborns and Children Under 5 Years of Age, 2022). There are also some countries like Somalia, Africa, which still has a mortality rate of 14% wherein most of the other countries have achieved a single-digit percentage of infant mortality rate (IMR) years ago.
There is a significant difference on how different countries take appropriate measures with regards to combating Infant mortality rate (IMR). Some countries that are poorer than other countries are simply not updated with such trends. Having struggling countries take the same approach would considerably gain significant results with their battle against mortality rates.
# SIGNIFICANT OF THE PROJECT
The infant mortality rate (IMR), which is particularly susceptible to broad structural factors like socioeconomic development and basic living conditions, is typically regarded as a significant national indicator of health. Statistics on mortality are a useful tool for evaluating the state of community health. They offer a picture of the health issues that exist right now, reveal enduring risk patterns in particular populations, and display trends in particular causes of death across time. Knowing this, this research aims to assess which countries are successful against infant mortality and give light to their practices and approaches. This will then become a pattern for countries struggling to combat IMR so that every country would have the same status when it comes to healthcare.
This study aims to contribute to the advancement of Sustainable Development Goal (SDG)3, specifically the SDG 3.2 which seeks to end preventable deaths of newborns and under-5 children by 2030. Through assessing significant factors that contribute to lowering mortality rates across the globe.
- **The Students** for those students who might require data from the project. They will be able to have a thorough understanding of the variables that affect the reduction of child mortality throughout time.
- **The Teachers** for educators who will be covering the development of child mortality rates in their classes. Their lessons can make use of the data gathered for the project.
- **The Government** Health Officials For health officials in the government who may need information for upcoming programs involving children's health.
- **The Future Researchers** To give the researchers some background information on infant death rates. The analytics for this project can offer them fresh perspectives, ideas, and judgments.
# METHODS
The researchers will conduct this research by analyzing the datasets from UNICEF data science explorers. The researchers utilized datasets relating to the mortality rate of children under five years of age as well as the stillbirth rate of every region, both for the Sustainable Development Region as well as UNICEF Region. Analysis as to which region proves to have the lowest rate of stillbirth and mortality rate will be chosen as the basis as to how one region should combat stillbirth and mortality rate. After careful analysis, recommendations will be made as to what practices should every region, more specifically, every woman in different regions should put into action.
# EXPECTED OUTPUT
The goal of this study is to identify the regions, both the SDG and UNICEF region, which have a low rate of under five mortality rate and stillbirth rate. By identifying the regions that were successful in their battle against under five mortality and stillbirth we can investigate the practices and ways that they implemented to lower such rates. Such practices would be the basis of how every region, every country specifically, should approach maternal healthcare. By doing this, not only certain regions, but the whole world can lower the overall under five mortality rate and the stillbirth rate.
# REFERENCES
